Hey guys welcome back to the course.
So in this lecture we're going to talk about hedging your launch date which is a strategy you can use
with your clientele that can save you a lot of headaches and make your process go a lot more fluidly.
So I always like to think of a project timeline like a car trip you take from point A to Point B.
Except in this car trip a lot of places along the way from point A to Point B.
There's a bunch of hidden landmines Now there could be 100 landmines or there could be one or two or
maybe there's even zero.
You might hit all hundred and you might not hear a single one.
The point is even if you're fantastic calculating how fast your car drives and how far the distances
from point A to Point B.
And if you've driven this route before it all doesn't really matter because you can't really calculate
how many land mines are going to hit and each one of them could take up a day or two of your time.
People will get sick.
Services that you use for information their API will get taken down.
Other companies you use for information their services will go down people you rely on for assets like
a graphic designer for design assets or outside of your business.
They could be late all of the stuff.
It happens all the time.
Now the only way that I've found you can consistently avoid the fallout from missing a deadline because
of some other issue you couldn't possibly foresee is to hedge your launch date.
OK so let's take an example.
Say you have a project.
It's a month long project and it's launching on July 1st.
Now is your client launching their product on July 2nd.
Well probably not.
So why say I'll deliver the product on July 1st when you can easily just get away with saying I'll deliver
it the first week of July.
Now it sounds sloppy to say that but you'd be surprised how few people actually care whether or not
they have a single day that everything's going to be delivered.
Now remember the sticklers for timeline are typically the clients that are going to be unrealistic about
the project and are probably going to be headaches down the road.
So hedge your bets plan on heading and least a couple landmines.
And again landmines mean any issue that can blow up and take a couple days of your time that you couldn't
possibly have foreseen.
So if you have the option to say a specific date or a range of dates always pick the range of dates
even if you think you know exactly the day you're going to deliver it.
Your future self will thank you immensely.
How is this possible.
Well deadlines and development projects are very rarely set.
The only time anyone ever cares is if you're giving a timeline that takes a disproportionate amount
of time or it's unrealistically short.
That's the only time something is a huge problem.
The difference between launching on July 1st or launching anywhere from July 1st to July 7th is absolutely
minimal.
So hedge your launch date say the week of July say the weekend after July say July 1 to 2 or July 1
to 4.
But the point is though internally then plan to launch on July 1st.
You just gave yourself some significant breathing room that can save you in a pinch.
And remember if your client is specific about it being delivered on July 1st and not July 2nd your client
probably sucks.
Your client is probably a bad person.
So it's not someone that you really want to have a long term relationship anyway.
All right guys you just want as much as you can what a lot of people don't realize is that deadlines
are often kind of up in the air you can set the tone and a lot of people are perfectly fine with there
being a wide range even if they ask you why you could say well potentially some issues should could
arise.
So use that to your advantage.
All right guys questions post in the groups scutcheon otherwise see the next lecture.